# Billing_Automation
Python Billing Automation

### What is this?
My current employer is a small SaaS provider in the aviation sector. From the beginning, our billing process has been very hands on. Our developers created a basic billing system page for each customer, but the actual process of invoicing has been very hands on. When I joined the company, we had close to 60 customers, and the average total time it would take to complete a billing cycle was about two weeks depending on the month. Since assisting in billing each month is part of my job description, I know how difficult it is to keep track of every different way we bill our customers based on what they asked for in their contracts. 

After six months of doing the billing by hand, I realized there had to be a better way of doing things. I had some previous experience with Python (I took but did not complete a Microsoft course about ML and AI), and so I asked my boss if I could take time away from my other responsibilities in order to try to automate some of the work. He told me I could, and so I spent the next five months diving deep into Python and Selenium to develop this Python program. What would normally take us two weeks of intensive work now can be completed in about three days.

### How does it work?
About a week before billing starts, I get an Excel spreadsheet with all of our customers listed and the invoice number for that month. I take this and input the invoice numbers on an Excel spreadsheet that also has different parameters listed based on the custeomer's preferred way of being invoiced. When we start billing, I then feed this file into the program through a GUI i created for it using PySimpleGUI, and also input the username and password for our billing site. After a quick check to see if the username and password are correct, the program starts one by one getting the information off of the file I gave it, creating and closing browser windows using Selenium WebDriver. Using the parameters given to it, it will invoice customers and issue refunds through a spreadsheet is generates as it finds them.

### What's next?
As this project goes along, I make some changes to keep it current. One of the major changes I made was doing away with anything in it that was related to Internet Explorer. When I started, and the for about a year and a half after, we had some customers that were on a version of our product that was written for IE, even though we had one that was cross-browser. As time has progressed, we now do not have any customers on it, and so the code that was written for it is now gone. Eventually, I will be given the go ahead by our developers to go in to the source code for our billing system and write the logic of this program directly into the billing system's code, completely doing away with a seperate program.
